# Gene-to-Gene-Co-Citation-Literature-Network
This project shows the correlation between a pair of genes in terms of how many research paper abstracts they were both found in.
I wrote a Python script for querying the National Center for Biotechnology Information's Pubmed Entrez API to fetch XML documents for the search query "Non Small Cell Lung Cancer" and stored them in my local MongoDB database. Then I performed a search operation for 1255 genes in the retrieved paper abstracts (Genotype Mining) and stored their respective Pubmed Ids(PMIDs). Next, I calculated the number of common PMIDs between every pair of genes and recorded them as weighted edges of an undirected graph.
Finally, I visualised this large scale graph using Cytoscape Network Visualisation Tool and published it on the Network Data Exchange Website for lucid visualisation and analysis

# Pubmed:
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/
# Entrez:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Web/Search/entrezfs.html

# AllGenes.csv:
List of 1255 genes along with their aliases
# MongoDB.txt: 
Example of queries to perform a text search in MongoDB.
# RunQuery.py:
Python script for querying Pubmed and dumping results in local MongoDB database.
# GeneSearch.py:
Python Script that reads the list of all genes and searches each of these genes along with its aliases in the MongoDB database.
It records the unique PMIDS of the records in which the gene or its alias was found in the AbstractText of the publication.
Then it stores these results in a dictionary with the gene's main name as the key and the PMIDS as values.
This dictionary is written to the-
# GeneSearch Results csv file.
# GeneAnalysis.py:
 Opens GeneSearchResults.csv file to process PMIDS and find common PMIDS between genes to calculate the adjacancy matrix which is written to Matrix.csv file.
# Matrix.csv.sif:
Standard Interaction Format file of the Gene Network generated by Cytoscape.
# Matrix.csv.png:
Portable Network Graphics File of the Gene Network generated by Cytoscape.


 
